Octopuses have eight legs. Or eight arms or eight tentacles. But they have no bones. The only hard part of their body is called a "beak". They use their beak to bite their food.

Animals with a skeleton, like humans, birds and fish have muscles and bones. Almost every muscle is attached to two bones, which are connected by a joint, like your knee or your elbow or your jaw. When the muscle contracts (becomes shorter), it pulls the ends of the two bones closer together, and the bones rotate about the joint. A muscle is made of short fibres, which are connected to each other. The fibres are arranged side by side, like pencils in a pencil case. They all lie in the same direction: the same direction as the whole muscle. A muscle contracts when the individual fibres contract.

If an octopus has no bones, what do its muscles pull on?

You have one important group of muscles which is not attached to a bone at both ends: your tongue. Your tongue has eight muscles. Four of them are not attached to any bone. You use these four muscles to make many different shapes with your tongue. Two of these muscles go from front to back. The other two go in different directions: one goes up and down, the other goes from side to side. The four muscles that are attached to bones change the position of your tongue.

The shape and position of your tongue changes the way air moves in your mouth when you speak. This allows you to create the different vowel sounds (a, e. i, o, u, and many more) that make language so rich.

But an octopus has no bones at all. The fibres in all of its muscles go in every direction: up and down, left and right, backwards and forwards. An octopus can contract all the fibres that go in one direction to make the muscle hard in that direction. These contracted fibres act like a temporary bone. The other fibres can then pull against the hard fibres, and curve the octopus's tentacle.

So how does the octopus's beak work? It is very sharp. Why does it not cut the muscles of the octopus?

When you use scissors, the cutting blades are sharp and very hard, but the part you hold with your fingers is softer and smooth. An octopus's beak is the same, only much, much better. The hardest part that cuts is 100 times harder and stiffer than softest part. The cutting part is twice as hard and twice as stiff as any man-made material, even materials made with metal.

It is made using only 4 different materials: water, proteins, chitin and a dark pigment. Chitin is the same material that crabs use for the hard cases around their bodies. You find many proteins in eggs and meat and nuts. Pigment is what gives colour to your eyes, your skin and your hair. The hard part of the beak is mostly protein and pigment, the soft part is mostly chitin and water. The octopus's muscles are attached to the soft part, so it does not hurt its muscle "fingers" as it squeezes the scissor beak shut.

To control its complex muscles, the octopus has 9 brains: one brain in every tentacle, and one in its head. Each tentacle can think for itself. If you cut off one tentacle of an octopus, it can continue to move and hold things.