The Octopus's Eye

the   of   and   a   in   to   it   is   you   with   on   that   by   at   are   not   this   but   they   from   which   or   we   an   were   have   their   has   would   there   if   can   all   as   do   one   said   them   could   into   its   then   two   when   time   out   so   about   your   no   more   other   also   any   first   only   new   very   like   how   well   way   between   years   because   three   good   where   through   know   too   here   same   see   make   think   most   something   different   always   without   both   place   perhaps   water   almost   find   come   anything   body   little   million   question   book   away   help   far   father   look   idea   need   ago   put   change   white   paper   land   goes   son   energy   red   colour   press   move   hard   wrote   glass   fish   stop   eye   1000   heavy   doctor   light   animals   live   works   blue   slowly   close   differences   image   instead   skin   soft   scientific   bright   green   2000   kinds   brain   yours   spot   sensitive   scientists   focus   fast   wet   camera   photograph   4000   muscles   moon   demonstration   amazing   backwards   shell   ate   eaten   forwards   shadows   sphere   relax   8000   circular   shells   swim   lens   swam   16000   rods   separates   cones   sharpness   molluscs   snails   bends   aberration   anaesthetic   slugs   octopus   32000   fatter   prism   clams   limpets   nautiluses   black-and-white   spheric

Octopuses are molluscs. Snails, slugs, clams and limpets are also molluscs. Most molluscs have a hard shell, and a soft body, and most of them live in water. Only snails and slugs live on land, and they like places that are wet.

Octopuses have no shell. Nautiluses are  molluscs like octopuses, but they have a shell, and they swim slowly because their shell is heavy. Octopuses can swim very fast. Scientists think that the first octopuses with no shells lived 100 - 160 million years ago. Perhaps at that time, there were new kinds of fish which ate slow animals. Octopuses who swam fast were not eaten.

Animals that move fast need to see well. The octopus has amazing eyes. Its eyes are very different from yours. In your eyes, you have about 6 million "cones" which can see three different colours of light: red, green and blue. You also have about 120 million "rods" which can see any colour of light. They help you see shadows and bright spots, like in a black-and-white photograph.

The octopus eye has no cones. Its eyes are sensitive only to blue light. In water, blue is the brightest colour of light because it has the most energy. But an octopus can change the colour of its skin. It can make its skin the same colour as the place where it is, so no other animals can see it.

The question is: how can an octopus know about different colours, if its eyes can only see one colour?

In 2016, father and son Christopher and Alexander Stubbs wrote a scientific paper, where they said the octopus could perhaps see colour through spheric aberration. 

When white light goes through a prism or a circular glass of water, it separates into different colours. In both your eye and the eye of an octopus, there is a lens which is almost a sphere. When you look at something that is close to you (like a book), muscles in your eye press on the lens to make it fatter. This bends the light more, so that the image in your eye is in focus. When you look at something far away (like the moon), the muscles in your eye relax.

Your eyes are always moving. Your brain needs the image in your eyes to change a little all the time. It only sees the differences between two images. If your eyes look at one spot without moving (perhaps because a doctor put an anaesthetic in your eye) then you stop seeing anything.

If you have a good camera, you can focus the image by moving the lens forwards or backwards. The eye of an octopus works the same way. To change focus, the lens in an octopus's eye moves in and out. Perhaps the lens in the octopus's eye is always moving, too, so that different colours of light come into focus at different times. Perhaps the octopus is not seeing colour the way we do. Perhaps it is seeing sharpness of focus instead.

You can find a demonstration of this idea here:
https://russkiy.fun/support/octopus_vision/

