the    of    and    a    in    to    it    is    was    I    for    you    he    be    with    on    that    by    at    are    not    this    but    they    his    from    had    she    which    or    we    an    were    been    have    their    has    would    what    will    there    if    can    all    her    as    who    one    said    them    could    him    into    its    then    two    when    up    time    out    so    did    about    your    now    no    more    other    just    these    people    first    only    new    should    like    than    how    way    between    years    many    three    down    back    good    where    through    must    even    too    here    get    own    does    last    same    see    yes    go    make    day    man    another    world    got    work    life    again    against    think    never    most    old    over    why    each    while    part    made    different    children    always    without    small    thing    say    both    group    every    place    house    before    information    men    money    night    perhaps    hand    nothing    home    yet    water    side    used    give    want    almost    thought    young    room    able    eye    public    though    towards    others    knew    today    enough    door    voice    body    person    together    research    month    name    little    question    book    words    mother    market    began    away    among    gave    real    known    far    father    across    look    tell    else    sometimes    better    need    table    free    few    centre    put    food    air    someone    everything    mind    minute    nature    felt    department    ask    around    land    herself    told    once    friend    care    single    town    open    strong    either    week    music    game    student    knowledge    let    hair    bad    story    short    become    everyone    whatever    evening    modern    computer    whom    above    feel    left    energy    income    leave    building    suddenly    fine    forward    outside    husband    turned    meet    thank    teacher    show    colour    exactly    window    science    sales    opportunity    written    wrote    glass    stop    importance    talk    girl    garden    start    buy    responsible    piece    answer    tomorrow    baby    hot    beautiful    light    below    know    live    family    university    tree    kitchen    duty    truth    effort    separate    car    edge    image    opinion    clothes    plant    river    visit    impossible    somewhere    wind    message    write    spoke    smiled    fresh    dark    customer    suggest    explain    animal    plan    rich    formal    coffee    follow    watch    earth    reality    read    background    smile    seat    return    class    freedom    relationship    goal    train    mark    scientific    met    field    silence    colleague    tiny    note    reach    fact    except    walk    send    sit    vital    create    head    owner    tradition    green    spent    busy    begin    narrow    bag    address    journey    screen    least    tall    respect    noise    bridge    massive    author    page    cut    trust    tear    fruit    raise    soil    editor    rail    marry    writer    road    stairs    shoe    flow    century    enter    apart    tired    die    copy    taste    coat    preparation    wedding    change    darkness    professor    sleep    flat    exist    proud    describe    festival    introduce    precise    travel    smooth    chose    experiment    pass    dress    proof    stare    imagination    keep    discover    dance    smell    holiday    sound    link    perform    root    nowhere    text    end    cut    drawing    shopping    prepare    laughter    observation    collect    cross    hope    waters    carriage    reflection    folk    tight    emotion    spirit    flower    explore    fiction    amazing    cool    vegetable    guard    journal    hide    plate    fellow    loose    panic    arrange    handsome    cover    drinking    press    shape    desert    forgot    whoever    smart    create    abandoned    cloud    breast    refuse    cooking    stranger    seed    novel    forth    couple    celebration    sunlight    musician    polite    cautious    climb    colourful    oak    wine    organiser    shelves    disappoint    organize    drunk    bride    shoot    passionate    bent    illusion    decide    fragile    gather    dated    capture    strand    shade    quantum    casually    Sunday    imaginary    transparent    balance    patch    gossip    trap    truck    ribbon    recipe    deception    spacious    flow    purse    duck    Claire    whisper    handwriting    extract    dot    dig    grandparent    invent    fossil    mushroom    adventure    greet    campaigner    fill    pretend    dreaming    puzzle    consume    disruptive    fade    search    wade    groom    jumble    inspire    pioneer    blindly    notebook    bookshop    spun    oblivion    rocking    destroy    sip    wrap    deceptive    underline    hint    respectful    texture    warp    lean    unattended    evasive    enroll    botany    photosynthesis    imagine    dignitary    rally    tatter    flourish    frustrate    tumultuous    Borneo    jungles    wordless    bouquet    unsettle    Mendel    cellophane    invisibly    lull    entanglement    Internet    clutter    weft    encyclopedia    beguile    email    mycelium    flyleaf    flowershop    second-hand    post-graduate    disentangle    no-one    life-force    uncurl

Mongolian    Heraclitus    Theophrastus    van Helmont    Al-Dinawari

The bridge links two worlds. Or keeps them apart. On one side, her home. On the other, her work. And the river always flowing, never the same. A river of tears for Heraclitus. A river for ducks.

A return journey there and back, every day. The river is the warp and she is the weft. Every day except Sundays and holidays: the proof that she is not an animal. Animals don’t have Sundays and holidays.

Her name is Claire. Flowershop Claire. The wind and the light in her hair. Flowers are nothing but sunlight and air. Flowers, plants, trees, even the most massive oak: water just passes through them, from the clouds in through their roots and up to the clouds again. Always flowing, with just a taste of soil.

And she, too, is just passing through. Back and forth. She has no roots in the earth.

Claire does not own the flowershop. She can never own a flowershop, but she does all the work. The owner knows rich families - families where children are preparing to get married, and grandparents are preparing to die. The owner knows festival organisers, campaigners, dignitaries. She knows everyone who needs to show a colourful public image. But Claire knows plants and flowers, and it is she who arranges their beautiful cut heads in bouquets.

A good day is a day when there are few customers. No need to talk. No need to explain how to care for the plants she has raised with her own hands. No need to wrap up her plants with a ribbon, no need to smile her cellophane smile. No need to give a part of herself, for a stranger to give away.

A day when she has time to think wordless thoughts with her wordless plants. So many different shapes and textures, so many different smells, so many different colours, so many different shades of green, and all created from same air, the same light and water and taste of soil. So many different recipes, each captured in a seed that can be as small as the dot on a question mark: what is life?

Theophrastus, Al-Dinawari, van Helmont, Mendel, and so many others over the centuries: she imagines how their spirits whisper invisibly around her. All these pioneers — men with money and the opportunity to travel, to make observations, to perform experiments, to piece together the puzzle of how one seed creates a flower that creates another seed: they both inspire and frustrate her. Every day, she must cross the bridge, there and back, just to make enough money to live.

But that does not stop her from dreaming.

When she goes home, perhaps there will be a message from Kostya, the man she met once on a train. That day, she was dressed in fine clothes for her friend’s wedding. That day, she was not responsible for the flowers.

Kostya, the writer. “Novels, short stories … fiction,” he told her. She had been disappointed at first. “Just imaginary things,” she had said. She had turned away and looked out of the window, at the real world.

“Fiction can be more vital than the truth," Kostya had said. "You see the buildings, the roads, the cars and trucks, even the fields. They were once just imaginary things in someone’s mind. And then, with effort, someone made them real. First, you must trust your imagination.”

“Trust?” she had said, and looked at him. And that’s how the game began.

When she goes home, across the bridge, she will go through the market to buy fresh vegetables, just enough for today, with just enough money in her purse. And perhaps she will meet a friend for coffee, and they will talk of this and that for a while, drinking each others’ laughter. Just one small coffee, but gossip and laughter are free.

And then it will be time again to climb the stairs and open the door of her flat, and greet her father and mother and their silence. Her shoes and coat by the door, the shopping bag on the table in the kitchen.

She will have to wade through the silence to reach her room and her books. Shelves and shelves of books. A table covered with books, open as she left them. Used books, from jumble sales and second-hand bookshops. Books with words underlined by university students, dated encyclopedias of nature, tattered books with loose covers and faded colour plates, and her own notebooks with her precise drawings and tiny handwriting — all the knowledge that she has been able to collect over the years. Her world.

No stories, just facts. Her father respects facts, and it is her duty to respect her father. Her mother fills the silence with the sounds and smells of cooking.

But if on her computer there is a message from Kostya, then she can enter a different world. An imaginary world. A beguiling world. A deceptive world. An illusion. A world where life is good.

On the train, Kostya was a stranger, and Claire had been free to be whoever she chose to be. For the time of the journey, she could be a post-graduate research fellow in botany, why not? She could have travelled to the Mongolian desert to dig for the fossils of plants. Why not? She could have been to explore the jungles of Borneo, to discover plants with amazing colours not yet known to science. She could be working on quantum entanglement in photosynthesis, at the cutting edge of knowledge. She could tell him all she knew about the way plants send each other messages through the strands of mycelium created by mushrooms: an Internet of plants. And why not? She knew about all these things. She could tell Kostya all the things she was passionate about, all the things that her friends did not want to talk about. So she spun a fiction for him, to show him the importance of facts.

In a few minutes, the journey would be over, and she would become just Claire again. It was only a game.

But Kostya wrote his email address on the flyleaf of one of his books and gave it to her. And though she smiled her florist’s smile for him and left the train, the book in her hand hinted that the game was not yet over.

So many emotions gather at a wedding. Weeks and months of income and preparation all consumed in a single day. At first, everything is so formal, so organized. There is a tradition to follow. Every flower in its place. And then the rich food and the wines, and the smart clothes become too tight and too hot, and the music and dancing begin. Old couples, new couples, couples that last only for one dance, couples that will last only for this one night.

It’s dark now outside, and cool by the open doors. Claire disentangles herself from her friends and goes to sit at the side. Sipping from a tall glass. Watching. A young mother with a baby at her breast, who follows her handsome husband with her eyes as he dances with all the girls. The old folk bent forward over the table between them, to talk above the noise. The unattended children, discovering a tumultuous new freedom. A group of drunk young men for whom the one goal of celebration is oblivion. The musicians, and the energy flowing between them. The bride and groom, sometimes together, sometimes apart.

Where is her place among all these people?

No-one to talk to on the train home. She had Kostya’s book, but she was too tired to read. The few words she read spoke to her in his voice and lulled her to sleep with the rocking of the carriage. She almost forgot the book on the seat when it was time to leave the train.

At home, in her room, there was nowhere to put the book. It was too new, too different. It was disruptive. She should at least send an email to say “Thank you” for it, and then perhaps she could give it to a friend. Perhaps she should read it first, at least a few pages. Tomorrow. Now it’s time to sleep.

His answer to her thank-you note unsettled her. Here, in her room, among all her things and the smell of her mother’s cooking, she was herself again, but the message he had written was to the person she had pretended to be on the train. His message was cautious, respectful, open. It was so different from the texts she got from her friends.

It was so good to feel different. It felt good to be the person he thought she was. And it was good that he would always be busy, always be far away. It was good that he would never be able to separate the fiction from the facts. She could write whatever she wanted to him and trust her imagination, just as he had said she could.

And so, little by little, through her messages to him, over the following weeks and months, she created a new world for herself. Her father, a university professor; her mother, the editor of a scientific journal; her home, a spacious modern house in a flourishing garden. And she had friends and colleagues from all over the world. A fragile world of deception.

In return, Kostya started sending her extracts of the stories he was writing. He asked her for her opinion. The old Claire would have been polite and transparent and evasive. The new Claire told him exactly what she thought: the good and the bad.

He described his journeys, his relationships, his hopes, his life. She spent good money on new copies of his books. She did not hide them from her father. She was proud to have an author as her friend. A man with the money and the time to travel.

She visited the university, so that she could describe to him it better. She enrolled in evening classes, so that she could talk about her teachers. She rallied her friends to plant fruit trees and vegetables on abandoned patches of land, to write to him about their adventures.

So she is changing, and the world around her is changing with her.

But not enough.

Panic.

This message from Kostya today — it destroys everything.

In three days, he will be visiting her town. He wants to meet her again. Casually, he suggests that they can talk about a new story he is planning, and visit her department at the university together so that he can gather background information.

But she isn’t who Kostya thinks she is. The person he wants to meet doesn’t exist. She can’t show him around the place where he thinks she works, she can’t introduce him to the people she has invented. She can’t. She just can’t. It’s impossible.

But she cannot refuse to see him either. She can’t let go of the Claire she wants to be.

She sits at her cluttered table in her narrow room, staring blindly at her computer screen, and suddenly the room is too small for her, the flat is too small for her, the building is too small for her. She has to be outside.

Out in the darkness.

The bridge links two worlds. Reality and imagination. It is time to stop going back and forth between them.

She leans against the guard rail, looking down into the dark river below. No ducks. They will be somewhere else at this time of night. Just the water flowing. Without water, there is no life. Life made of air and light.

She is trapped. She cannot be the person Kostya imagines her to be and she cannot go back to the person she was before. She searches in the smooth dark waters below for her reflection.

Trapped, her body pressed against the guard rail.

This is where the deception ends, she decides.

Trapped, like the life-force in a seed is trapped.

A seed from which a new shoot uncurls like a question mark, reaching up towards the light.

Yes, she thinks: This is where I arrange to meet him. Here in the centre, here where everything is balanced and the flow is smooth and strong. We can start walking somewhere together from here.